---
title: 35 in 35
date: 2016-01-01
tags:
- life in general
---
Happy New Year, everybody! I'm excited that it's 2016. I'm looking forward to making 2016 my year, and of course, I have a few things I'd like to achieve. Since my birthday falls so close to the end of the year, I figured I'd list 35 things I want to do while I'm 35 instead of making a list of resolutions. I've been working on this list for weeks and I'm excited to finally post it.

## Personal

* **Move back to New England.** This is the big one. I've been in Portland now for a year and a half, and while I love a lot of things about it, I don't love living so far from my family. Sometime in 2016 I will be packing up my things and moving 2500 miles back to the land of Dunkin Donuts, Celeste Pizza, and, of course, Friendly's ice cream.
* **Take a trip to the Cape.** Cape Cod is my favorite place in the world, so I want to take a trip there. Just a weekend would do. I want to smell the salt air and walk on the flats and pick up pretty shells. I love the Cape.
* **Grow out my hair.** I like having short hair, but I also like changing it. A lot. I've never kept it long for decent periods of time, so this year, I want to grow it. Maybe I'll even document the hair growth process here!
* **Cook at least one new recipe a month.**
* **Cook more at home.** I go out to eat so much these days, and while I still want to enjoy delicious restaurants, I want to cook more, too.
* **Host a holiday or event.** I've never really hosted many parties and I've never hosted a holiday, so I'd like to do one of the two. It will more than likely be some sort of party, but it's better than nothing!
* **Listen to more music.** Music is such a big part of my life, but I've slacked off for years on finding new music to listen to. I don't even know how to do it anymore! I'm hoping to figure this out in 2016 and I'll utilize my Spotify account a lot.
* **Learn tarot.** I've been talking about learning tarot since my friend Josh gave me a couple readings back when I lived in Indiana. I finally bought a deck right before the holidays, so I want to spend some time learning how to do my own spreads.
* **Meditate.** I always feel weird talking about meditation and I feel weird wanting to do it, but I think it will help with the big changes happening in my life right now. I want to start with 5 minutes in the morning before I start my day.

## Reading/writing

* **Read 25 books.** I wish I could make this 35, just because, but 25 is a much more realistic goal. [I read 22 books last year](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/1554893?shelf=2015), so hopefully I can jump it up to 25 this year!
* **Participate and finish Nanowrimo 2016!** I'm so happy I finished Nanowrimo last year, so I'm hoping I can finish this year too. Whether I write by myself or write with a group, I'll make it happen again!
* **Write in the blog at least 8 times a month.** This averages out to 2 posts a week, which I think I can do. I love writing and would love to continue writing more often in here.
* **Fill up my current paper journal.** I started my current journal at the end of November, and I'd like to fill it up before the end of 2016. I can do it!
* **Write in my paper journal at least 3 times a week.** Ideally I'd like to write in it daily, but I know that's not realistic for me. 3 times a week is a good starting point.

## Craftiness

* **Knit my first sweater.** I've tried knitting sweaters in the past, but not since maybe 2008, but none of them ever looked right. This year, I want to make one. I'm thinking of knitting a Mama Vertebrae as my first, as I've heard it's pretty straightforward.
* **Spin all the fiber in my stash.** I only have 11 bumps of fiber in my stash currently, so it's feasible I can get through them all. I'm still sitting on a couple from 2006, which I so need to spin!
* **Finish 3 cross-stitch projects.** I'm not even halfway done with [the Harry Potter cross-stitch I'm working on right now](/posts/a-tiny-cross-stitch-update), so this might be a little too ambitious. We shall see.
* **Find a local knitting group.** I haven't belonged to one in such a long time, and I miss it so much. 2016 will be the year I get back to it.
* **Knit a pair of socks for Christmas 2016.** I love the tradition of knitting socks for Christmas, so I want to continue it in 2016.
* **Buy no new yarn besides at fiber events.** I have enough yarn as it is, so I only want to buy yarn at fiber events. Speaking of which...
* **Attend at least 3 fiber events.** Rhinebeck, I'm looking at you! I'm hoping for a few other events, because I've missed attending them.

## Tech/Career

* **Attend at least 3 conferences.** I'm hoping to attend [Design 4 Drupal](https://design4drupal.org), [Nerd Summit](https://nerdsummit.org), [New England Drupal Camp](https://nedcamp.org), and hopefully [Wordcamp US](https://central.wordcamp.org/wordcamps/wordcamp-us) and [Wordcamp Boston](https://boston.wordcamp.org/2016)!
* **Learn how actions and filters really work in Wordpress.**
* **Learn a new CSS technique.** I'm looking at you, Flexbox.
* **Put up a portfolio site, finally!** I've been wanting to do this for years, and 2016 will be my year for this!
* **Re-categorize and organize the posts here.** I have so much content here, from 2000 onward, and I want to make more of my archives public. I also want to move back to using categories instead of tags, but I don't know how long that will take. I have over 1000 posts here, which is unbelievable!

## Fitness

* **Start running more consistently again.** I've only run a handful of times in the past year and a half, so I've lost most of my endurance. I want to run at least 3 times a week to start. I just need to get better at doing it regularly so I don't lose it again!
* **Run another 5k.** I'd preferably like to run a 5k in [under a half hour](/posts/jingle-bell-5k-race-recap) again, but I'm not sure I can do that with my first race back to it.
* **Run another 10k.** My [last 10k](/posts/race-recap-2014-market-square-day-10k) was terrible, so I want to redeem myself. I won't get under an hour with the first one I run again, but that will be a longer term goal.
* **Run another half marathon.** I have such fond memories of [running my first half marathon](/posts/providence-half-marathon-race-recap) that I want to run another. Seriously, I count that as one of the best days of my life.
* **Run a Turkey Trot.** I miss having this as a [Thanksgiving tradition](/posts/2013-turkey-trot-5k-race-recap)!
* **Run the Hot Chocolate Run!** This is my [most favorite](/posts/hot-chocolate-run-2012-race-recap) [race](/posts/hot-chocolate-run-5k-2013-race-recap) ever, so of course I want to run it again. And again. And again.
* **Join a running group.** I love running with other people, so I'd love to do this again!
* **Join a gym.** I'm thinking I'll want to run indoors when it's cold outside this time around, as navigating streets covered with ice and snow isn't something I want to do any longer! I also would like to do some strength training.
* **Find a method of cross-training that sticks.** I'm thinking either yoga or strength training. I might start with yoga and once I'm feeling not so intimidated, I'll try lifting weights. I'd love to have muscles.
